- ♪ Hood adjacent ♪
♪ Hood adjacent ♪
♪ ♪
- James Davis is in the
building!
[cheers and applause]
- What's up, y'all?
Make some noise.
How y'all doing?
[cheers and applause]
This episode is for the people
who love HBO's "Girls"
but also miss UPN's
"Girlfriends."
"Hood Adjacent," y'all.
Tonight, we're talking about
something wonderful,
something incredible, something
magical.
We're talking about
black girl magic.
[cheers and applause]
Yes, I know some of you are
thinking, "Black girl magic?
Magic Johnson got a daughter?"
No, this is something different.
It's a celebration of black
women and their accomplishments
and their ability to overcome
the odds.
[cheers and applause]
Unfortunately, not everyone
seems so clear
on that definition.
What does black girl magic mean?
Thoughtful emoji.
- Oh, black girl magic.
You--you'll know when ya know.
That's all it is.
You'll know when ya know.
- You guys ever been to a Miami
strip club?
Mm-mm-mm-mm.
That's black girl magic.
- Sorry, I'm not sure what
you're talking about.
[laughs]
- Listen, listen, listen.
Let me tell you what black girl
magic is.
Let me explain to my crowd what
black girl magic is.
Because people don't
understand--
- Nope, uh-uh, uh-uh, no.
Hold up.
Hold on.
- Jazmyn Simon, everybody
- Wait a minute, James.
Were you really about to
mansplain
what black girl magic was?
Why don't you let me, an
actual black woman,
fill everybody in on what black
girl magic is?
- Well, Jazmyn, how would you
explain
something so nuanced
and powerful...
- All right.
- As black girl magic?
- Let me break it down for
you...
- Break it down.
- With a little bit of...magic.
Voilà.
Oh, that's why this is here.
- I came with props.
Now, the first part of a
magic trick is the pledge.
Now, that's when a magician
shows you an object.
In this
case, a super fine black woman,
Come on out, Oye.
- Oye.
- Oye. Oye.
- You really seem to be going
through with this metaphor?
- Yes, James. We're gonna need
a little help.
Come on down, Norm.
[cheers and applause]
All right.
I'm gonna need
your help with the handcuffs.
- Oh Norm's handcuffing?
- Oh, yeah.
- A black man is handcuffing
instead of
getting handcuffed?
Change.
- Now, the second part to the
magic trick is the turn.
Now, that's when the magician
takes an ordinary something,
and they make it do something
extraordinary.
- Oh, like the world finally
recognizing
the comedic
brilliance of Leslie Jones?
- Yep, mm-hmm.
In this case, we're gonna take a
black woman
and handcuff her and
place her in a locked box.
Now, I'm gonna need Norm to
lock her down.
She only has one minute of air
in there,
or she gonna suffocate.
Now, every sister in here
knows
that her oxygen has been
cut off in some way.
- You mean like Bill O'Reilly
making fun of Maxine Waters'
hair when she's making a point?
- Yep, just like that.
- Or Kid Rock reducing Beyoncé's
entire career
to her having a nice ass?
- Yep.
- Or like every Republican
on CNN cutting off my girl
Angela Rye
when she be killing it?
She's so deep. She's so woke.
- She is deep.
- Ooh, ooh, ooh, the girl, the
girl, the girl.
- Oh, my goodness, ya'll, she
only had one minute of oxygen.
We got to move on.
So look, what we gonna do is,
we will lift this up and give
this to Norm.
There you go, Norm.
The challenge isn't enough.
Against all odds, you have to
bring her back standing tall.
That's the last part,
the prestige.
Watch as black girl magic occurs
right before your eyes.
I need you to say the magic
word.
- Africa-dabra.
- Wow!
[cheers and applause]
Voilà!
Black girl magic.
[cheers and applause]
- Hey, that was dope.
That was dope.
- Thank you.
- Now we should make racism
disappear.
- Boy, this is magic.
This ain't no Jennifer Aniston
movie.
- Hey, Jazmyn.
- Yes, James?
- Can I--can I get my show back?
- I'ma let you have your black
boy joy.
- Jazmyn Simon, everybody.
[cheers and applause]
See? I'm woke. I'm woke now.
I remember the first time I
discovered
the magic black women possessed.
I had just come home from
detention,
and I watched as my mom made my
PlayStation disappear.
[laughter]
Y'all laughin'.
I cried.
But black girl magic is
contagious.
Robert De Niro,
George Lucas,
whoever Serena's
husband is.
They all married black women,
and it made them more woke.
Once you get a taste of it,
you have to keep coming back for
more.
Ain't that right?
[cheers and applause]
Now, that's very different than
"once you go black you never go
back."
This is about intellect,
not how big our dicks are.
- Wait. Hold up.
- You know it's true, though.
Statistics--what?
- James, James, wait.
You gonna talk about dicks in
the same episode
you're talkin'
about black girl magic?
Nah, come on. Stay the course
brother, stay the course.
- All right, you're right.
Good point.
Focus on the magic, James,
and not our big black wands.
Okay, we'll be back
with more black girl magic.
The magic. The magic.
The magic.
[upbeat funky music]
♪ ♪
- We back.
We on.
Even with all the black girl
magic in the world today,
people still keep
misunderstanding it,
people like DeRay.
[upbeat music]
♪ ♪
Black girl magic.
- In history I think about
Fannie Lou Hamer.
I think about Rosa Parks,
Claudette Colvin,
all these incredible people.
- Or just two girls arguing in
a park.
Real--this is real.
And doing all this like,
bringing that,
but you've never--
you've never seen.
- You are so close sometimes to
being fine,
and then you just veer off.
- Like girl, but you've never
seen like,
who the first girl that was
like, "Whatever."
Like, who did that?
- But I don't think that is--
- That is black history.
Whoever invented this "Please,"
that's--everybody does that.
- Is that magic or history?
- That's magic.
- He's almost so close.
- Where you think this came
from, "Pssh"?
[upbeat music]
- Our black girl magic
journey continues.
You know, sometimes people
think they're looking at black
girl magic, but they're not.
All they're looking at is a big
ass.
Enhanced booties seem to be
everywhere you look.
But this fascination with the
black female body
is more tragic than magic
according to USC professor
Anita Dashiell-Sparks.
The last time I was in a
professor's office,
I was being told that I was
academically ineligible.
So this is such a redemption on
a personal level for me.
- Yeah, yeah.
- What is black girl magic?
- Black girl magic to me is
possibility,
and it's strength, and it's
activism all rolled into one.
- Is the fascination with the
black female buttocks--
ass, as I like to call it...
- Mm-hmm.
- Is that fascination a
distraction
from black girl magic?
'Cause let's just talk about it.
It's everywhere now.
- It's everywhere.
- Booty is everywhere.
- Even mannequins have more ass.
- Yes, actually.
- You've--you've noticed that,
right?
- I actually have noticed that.
- I--I almost hollered at one.
- I know. It's ridiculous.
- Hey, there little body, what's
yo name?
It's out here.
- Yeah. It is out here.
- Why?
- There's always been the
fascination with the female
body, in particular the black
female body,
because they're seen as being
exotic.
There was a woman by the name of
Sarah Baartman who in 1810
was taken from South Africa.
The Khoikhoian tribe had this
special feature,
very large buttocks.
And they wanted to take her to
Europe to be a freak show,
so they could grope the buttocks
without impunity
and without judgment.
- I was on this site, Bossip,
And Nicki Minaj was performing;
she was pretty much naked, but
that's like her thing.
- Mm-hmm.
- It was a bunch of old white
dudes.
And they were literally,
like, trying to touch her.
They were grabbing her booty.
- Yeah.
- They don't care about her
lyrics, her bars, they just--
- No.
They're interested in her butt.
This obsession, for me,
I think,
links to the people...
- Back in 18...
- In 1810 paying to watch and
grope
and dehumanize Sarah Baartman.
- Look, I'm not proud to say
this,
but I personally follow
35 modern-day
Sarah Baartman's online.
You know,
Instagram models.
I never knew
I was a European groper trapped
in a young black man's body.
This ass fixation has obviously
been a boom for the owner
of the Magic City strip clubs
but also for plastic surgeons.
This dude calls himself Dr. Los
Angeles, but he's more like
President Donald Rump, and he's
on a mission to make asses huge.
How many booties are you
operating on per week?
- Oh, i would say in the
10 to 15 range, yeah.
- A week?
- Oh, yeah.
- So, that's like what,
three to five booties a day?
- Yeah, exactly.
- Man, homey's calendar
is packed.
[laughter]
- And how much are
these treatments?
- Usually between 12,000 and
14,000.
- Per cheek? Or the
whole booty?
- The whole booty.
- Wow.
- Has anyone come for
just one cheek?
- Once.
When you do as many as
we do, you see everything.
- What is it like knowing that
you're making millions
off of giving people asses?
- Good question.
I just feel
like an artist really.
It's a great thing.
I mean, how many people get to
make
that kind of money doing
what they love?
- He's right.
Statistically speaking, the
majority of people
who love asses don't get paid to
make asses.
Who is the ideal booty
out there
that your patients
want to be like?
- I would say Beyoncé.
I get a lot of Beyoncé.
- Beyoncé.
- Yeah.
- Do you feel like you are
profiting
off the original
black booties?
Do you feel like there's any
kind of appropriation happening?
- Uh, good--good question.
I don't
really project what I think.
- Okay.
But what if he did project
what he thought?
I met a guy named Dr. Los
Angeles.
Do you know him?
- No.
- He's like Oprah.
"You get a big booty.
You get a big booty.
Everybody get a big booty."
- What's gonna happen if you
have this large,
voluptuous butt?
How is your life gonna
be different?
- Maybe--maybe you get a sugar
daddy.
But he don't love you.
- No.
He just love the ass.
- That's right. That's right.
- Man, Professor Anita was
making me see asses very
differently than I did when I
was in college.
And in my 20s.
And five minutes before I
walked in to see her.
You become an objectified thing.
- Yes. You have to change the
narrative.
You have to consciously and
actively construct a new image
of empowerment, of womanhood,
and of femininity.
- You heard what the professor
said.
We have to change the
narrative.
So Norm and I
remixed "Ms. New Booty"
to make it about black girl
magic.
- ♪ Magic, magic, magic, magic
rockin' everywhere ♪
both: ♪ Magic, magic, magic,
magic rockin' everywhere ♪
♪ Black girl magic, magic,
♪ Rockin' everywhere, rock,
rockin' everywhere ♪
♪ I found you Ms. New Beauty ♪
♪ Jennifer Hudson,
Ruby Dee movies ♪
♪ That big booty
it don't impress me ♪
♪ Dunk a basketball like Lisa
Leslie ♪
♪ I found you black girl magic ♪
♪ Phylicia Rashad and Angela
Bassett ♪
♪ Kamala Harris,
that's a bad chick ♪
♪ Ran for senate, instead of
bein' ratchet ♪
♪ Get it right, get it
right, get it right ♪
♪ Wanda Sykes,
Wanda Sykes, Wanda Sykes ♪
♪ Shonda Rhimes,
Shonda Rhimes every time ♪
♪ Issa Rae
Issa Rae, Lisa Raye ♪
- ♪ Yeah I see you ♪
both: ♪ In your stilettos ♪
- ♪ But get your Gabby Douglas
on ♪
both: ♪ Gold medals ♪
- ♪ Write a book or two ♪
both: ♪ Maya Angelou ♪
- ♪ Ain't read 'em all ♪
both: ♪ But I've read a few ♪
- ♪ Shout-out to Erykah ♪
both: ♪ Badu
and Beyoncé from the Bayou ♪
- ♪ Oprah taught us we could all
be wealthy ♪
♪ Michelle Obama got us all
eating healthy ♪
- ♪ It was quarter after six ♪
- ♪ Uh-huh ♪
- ♪ 1955th ♪
- ♪ Okay ♪
- ♪ That was Rosa Parks ♪
♪ With the yin yang sit ♪
- ♪ Okay ♪
- ♪ My sister Condola and my
mom, mom, mom ♪
both: ♪ That black girl magic is
the bomb bomb bomb ♪
♪ Magic, magic, magic, magic
rockin' everywhere ♪
♪ Magic, magic, magic,
magic rockin' everywhere ♪
♪ Black girl magic, magic,
♪ Rockin' everywhere, rock,
rockin' everywhere ♪
- Oh,
don't get up from your couch.
We're gonna be right back,
y'all.
♪ Black girl magic, magic,
magic, magic ♪
- Last year, Hollywood finally
embraced black girl magic
with the movie "Hidden Figures."
[cheers and applause]
And all it took was 80 years and
the hashtag OscarsSoWhite.
Thanks to the movie, the once
unknown story of these historic
black women is now well-known.
But did you know there are
dozens of other
"Hidden Figures"-type stories
waiting to be told,
like Marie Van Brittan
Brown's story?
She invented the
closed-circuit television,
or in other words, the security
camera.
So thanks a lot, Marie.
You made it impossible for
us to steal at 7-Eleven.
It's a very long list.
Black women invented a machine
that removes cataracts with
lasers, central heating, a
toaster with a digital clock
that allows users to
control how brown
they want their bread.
Those are
all movies I want to see.
Maybe not the toaster one,
but, you know.
You know what?
If Pixar made a movie where an
elderly toaster played by
Morgan Freemen tells his origin
story, I'd watch.
It's Morgan Freeman.
But "Hidden Figures" made a ton
of money,
and that gave me an idea.
Why not make a ton of money by
telling an inspirational story
of another black woman, like
Shirley Ann Jackson?
[cheers and applause]
She was a science advisor to
President Obama.
[cheers and applause]
And in 1973,
Shirley Ann Jackson was the
first black woman to get her
PhD from M.I.T.
Make some noise.
[cheers and applause]
She did groundbreaking research
at Bell Labs
that gave us caller ID.
[cell phone chiming]
No, I ain't gonna take that.
Shout-out to Shirley.
She's alive, right?
Why am I looking up?
[laughter]
You know what, girl?
You need your own movie.
You need a Hollywood movie.
[cheers and applause]
[light piano music]
[telephone ringing]
- Answer that damn telephone.
- Who's calling?
- We won't know unless you
answer the telephone.
That is how the telephone works.
- Uh, Ms. Jackson, a moment.
I was speaking to a colleague at
Bell Laboratories.
He said they are looking for
bright young minds,
outside-the-box thinkers.
- Really? I've been mapping out
this idea
for a phone line module that
indicates a caller's name
when the telephone rings.
- Okay, Ray Bradbury,
save that for your science
fiction novels.
They're looking for
practical applications.
- Sometimes, to realize a
dream,
the only voice worth
listening to is your own.
- ITT is working on a go
anywhere phone,
but we--we've
got nothing.
- What if we had a display that
informs you who's calling?
- What is your name?
- Dr. Shirley Ann Jackson.
- Well, Ms. Dr. Shirley Ann
Jackson,
I'd say you've been dipping into
your own medicine bag.
[laughter]
[light piano music]
[telephone rings]
- Who could possibly be
calling at this hour?
- Wouldn't it be great to know?
- It would.
- [scoffs]
Well, tell that to my bosses
down at the lab.
They won't listen to me.
- I'm telling you, you believe
in yourself,
they ain't got no choice but to
believe in you.
[laughter]
- Calling line identification
presentation
with an analog
system interface.
- Calling line identification.
Now I've seen it all.
- So if your mother-in-law
calls, you don't have to answer.
[applause]
- From executive producers
Pharrell Williams
and Oprah Winfrey comes the
true story of one woman's
struggle to change our world.
Starring Jazmyn Simon as
Shirley Ann Jackson
With Ray Wise and Frank Clem
in the studio-mandated roles of
white savior...
- This is going to make those
telemarketers think twice
about interrupting America's
family dinner.
- And make us very, very
rich men.
[laughter]
[telephone ringing]
[cheers and applause]
- You know, if E equals M-C
squared,
then I should be able
to cook this at 400 degrees
for 27 minutes and it not
be dried.
I don't really know
what's going on.
- It--it...
- I don't know, Morris.
I just--
- We need to pray on it.
Dear, Lord, please un-dry the
chicken just, uh,
add some moisture deep, deep
into the thigh meat.
- Yes, Jesus.
- Season the--the vegetables
with your blessings
and some extra salt.
- See y'all in a minute.
- Thank you, thank you, thank
you, thank you.
Hey.
We back.
Listen, tonight's "Do Dope Shit"
is the message of the whole
episode.
Appreciate the black women in
your life.
[cheers and applause]
So I want to appreciate the most
important
black woman in my life.
I genuinely can't believe we
booked her.
I mean, fresh off her world
tour, everybody go nuts
when she walks out.
Give it up for my mama.
[cheers and applause]
We got this.
One, two, mm, mm, mm.
[cheers and applause]
Thank you, Mom, for everything
you've done for me, honestly.
- Well, you're welcome, honey.
- Ohh.
[together]
Aww.
- Is there anything...
I can do for you?
- Well, you could not swear so
much.
[together]
Ooh.
- You know what?
You know what?
Okay, okay,
can we change the graphic?
For you, Mama. "Do Dope Stuff.
Do Dope Stuff."
[cheers and applause]
- I was thinking how, you know,
you have your own show now,
maybe you could pay your own
cell phone,
cable bill, electric bill,
let's see, groceries, hmm.
- Black girl magic! Black girl
magic! Black girl magic!
That's a wrap on my mom for the
whole series.
That's been our show.
Thank you, Mom.
Hey!
Mom, we got a minute right, we
got a minute right here.
Do it like this; do it like
this.
Throw it to the side.
Throw the side.
Hey!
Now you gonna do this way.
Hey, Norm.
Like this. Hey.
Do it. Do it.
Yo, Mom, come on.
Come on.
♪ ♪
Hey! Hey!
It's lit.
- Oh, no.
- Eat the chicken, Anna Mae.
- I...
- Just eat the chicken.
I know it's dry.
Eat the chicken.
Drink some water.
Don't choke.
Drink--drink--drink the juice.
Drink.